I was living in New York City which was
my life dream I had my dream job I had
this lovely apartment I sort of had
everything I had ever wanted and yet the
core pain was in the experience that oh
I I must be flawed and broken and what
was Perfection going to get you
happiness hey everybody it's Joe and uh
we're here today with Stephanie Harrison
who uh wrote a book called the new happy
and I have been a fan of her Instagram
account I just think that it's uh the
illustrations and the the care that and
uh conscientiousness has put into the
account has always been something that's
fascinated me and so we're having her on
the on the program to talk about her new
book um and the book is called the new
happy and my first question is Stephanie
anything you want to say about yourself
before we get started and then I have
then I'll have my first question no no
you you've done a job just ask away ask
me your questions I can't wait okay so
the first question what made you write a
book on happiness like what was the
personal reason for writing a book on
happiness I think because I knew very
deeply what it was like to be unhappy
and it was that personal unhappiness and
misery that eventually compelled me to
want to study the topic to figure out
what I was doing so wrong and where I
had gone astray in my life and then
ultimately
the more that I learned the more that I
wanted to share but it really was kicked
off with my own experiences of
suffering and C can you go into details
about what those experiences like how
how bad did it get what was what was the
was what was the bottom like I think you
know it was first really triggered by my
experiences when I was in my early 20s I
was living in New York City which was my
life dream I had my dream job I had this
lovely apartment I sort of had
everything I had ever wanted in many
ways and yet I was experiencing so much
pain um it started with physical pain so
I started coming down with these rashes
that would cover my whole body and my
face and um they were you know
agonizingly painful I would um they
always came on when it was hot out and
you know these like really humid New
York City Summers and I was so
embarrassed and ashamed of it that I
would be wearing you know turtlenecks
and long sleeves and 90° heat trying to
cover myself up because to know what was
going on and no doctor really could give
me anything that would fix it ironically
a lot of what the doctors gave me
actually made it worse um like the
creams and all that kind of stuff and so
I had no idea what was going on there
and then I started feeling a lot of
emotional pain and suffering and having
panic attacks at work or when I was
driving in my car commuting to the
client I was working out at the time I
started feeling an overwhelming sense of
Despair and sadness and it never really
left me no matter what I did and I just
tried to distract myself and you know
forge on and persevere and all of that
fun stuff and it never really worked and
eventually you know one night I sort of
had a a breakdown and found myself lying
on my bedroom floor crying and it was at
that moment that I actually was
fortunate to have a kind of Moment of
clarity amidst the chaos like the eye of
the storm and thinking you know well
something must be wrong here in the way
that I'm living my life and I wonder
what it is and up until that moment I
had never questioned anything about what
I was doing I had never reflected on hey
maybe these choices you're making aren't
actually contributing to what you think
you want or what you're trying to
experience and um you know that that
little kind of Moment of clarity was
ultimately what sort of set me on this
journey of trying to better understand
happiness and well-being
yeah yeah our stories aren't too
different that way I was doing
International stock
lending gosh 1996 or something like that
I think I'm significantly older than you
and um breaking out in hives I was
working 12 hours a day making a
tremendous amount of money for my age um
but absolutely
miserable and I think as soon as I broke
out in hives I was like yeah this is
done like I knew has to change
we were like moving billions of dollars
around every day it was like this very
crazy high stress situation and I was
just like yeah this isn't this is not
gonna work for me and I quit everything
and moved out to the desert and recorded
an album out of all weirdness to do but
that was that was I think we have a
similar story in that yeah that's
amazing I mean your job sounds way more
stressful than mine so kudos to you I
would have broken under that pressure
but I um I think it's interesting isn't
it how it happens like these moments
that are that are so transformational to
me they they often are related to these
moments of suffering when you can attend
to it and notice the pain and actually
try to identify the messages that are
within it they hold these amazing
Treasures but of course I could never
have really seen that at the time yeah
it's funny I just did a a Twitter post
and I basically say you know how do you
drop a hot frying pan all you have to do
is feel it and you're going to drop the
hot frying pan if you want to drop bad
habits you just need to feel them is the
Twitter post and I can't I got more
backlash from that Twitter post I think
that almost any others like I had to
block a couple people from the account
because a lot of people were so offended
that like their identity of an addict or
their identity in the bad habit could be
dropped just by feeling the pain and
it's a it's a it was it was interesting
like people get religious about politics
and their food but they also get
religious about like the pain that they
identify themselves with I have noticed
that as well that's fascinating I think
you're so right
like and isn't isn't most behavior in
that way a way to avoid the pain right
like addiction is a way to avoid dealing
with the pain and you know burying
ourselves in work was my way of avoiding
dealing with the pain and all of that
stuff and yeah to to suggest that you um
face it is I think really scary for a
lot of people and goes against so much
of what they've had to armor themselves
with over time yeah yeah okay
so so now I know that you have like the
three things about the old way of being
happy in your book and the new way but I
so I I I want I don't want that answer
but we can go into that in a moment what
I what I would love
is like a slightly different answer so
at the time when
you realized that you were in this pain
you were suffering you're breaking out
and
rashes what was it about like right now
my guess is you could go and do that job
again and not be
miserable right yeah so what was it
about your mental framing that made that
situation so miserable maybe you would
still be miserable in that job but not
as miserable right like your mental
framing has changed what is it that what
is it that was it about your mental
framing
that made it so hardcore for you like
the the inner voice in your head the the
the inner critic what was it telling you
that you believe that made this so
hard I think
that you
know it was the the inner critic the
voice in my head was saying what the
hell is wrong with you what's wrong with
you you know why why can't you figure
this out why can't you hack it everyone
else seems to be fine everyone else on
your all the other people who are hired
along with you are doing a great job and
they seem happy and they're being
successful and why why are you the one
who's broken that's probably like the
deep down message that was creating so
much pain for me yeah so it was the
assumption that you were broken the
assumption that other people weren't
broken it was comparative mind MH and it
was also that you're supposed to be
doing something there's like this subtle
we teach something called the question
the Assumption and one of the
assumptions in all that is that you were
supposed to be productive for some
reason like as if that was going to make
you a good person or something yeah
exactly like if I could just figure out
all of the you know magical ingredients
and assemble them into this stew then I
would finally figure out you know the
secret to pulling it all together and um
the the idea that you know I think the
idea that there's something wrong with
you as a
person is is so deeply painful
especially when you are put in an
environment without the tools or the
resources or support to to know that
that might not be true that maybe you're
just somebody who's having a hard time
or maybe you're not in the right
environment and this place isn't the
best fit for you or as you saying like
you have these beliefs that are driving
you that need to
uh need to be examined in some way and
for me the core the core the core pain
was in the kind of the experience that
oh I I must I must be flawed and broken
deep down yeah yeah yeah so that's where
our work really I think has the most
overlap is
um you know in the deeper courses that
we do we talk about our inherent
goodness and but but our entire approach
isn't self Improvement it's
selfawareness because our our thought
process is just the idea
self-improvement is shame inducing it
starts with the idea that there's
something wrong with you self-awareness
starts with the idea that you're there's
nothing wrong with you and the more you
understand yourself the more it works
right like and it's just a matter of not
understanding and I think so let's talk
about the the three things about what
you you say the the old idea of
Happiness um has these three fall FES I
think just generally there's fallacies
that prevent happiness but what what
would you what what are those three
things and I think the first one we've
discussed but but go in go into them a
little bit if you'd like yeah of course
so the first is um as we've talked about
you're not enough there's something
wrong with you which I think is really
at the core of all of this um and then
builds off into these other things um
the second is that you have to achieve
certain goals or pursue a certain
outcome in your life in order to be
happy and then the third is that you
have to do it all by yourself you can
never struggle you can never lean on
other people you can never ask for help
and if you do it means that you're weak
and not worthy which then takes you
right back around to the beginning into
the cycle of trying to prove that you're
good enough through our society's
culture of achievement which then
contributes to aloneness and loneliness
and then again creates this this pattern
that I personally found myself stuck in
and know that many other people do as
well yeah so let's go to the second one
for a moment
the the achievement back
then when when you put yourself in the
you know rash New York City turtleneck
era what were you doing it for what were
you telling yourself you were doing it
for all the achievement yeah I mean
really like it was to be perfect like I
thought it
was it was to
be as perfect as I possibly could and of
course no matter what I did never got
close to being perfect um and part of
that idea of perfection for me was
grounded in achievements
and the things that I was supposed to do
in my life and the work and the progress
that I was supposed to make there and
the way that my life was supposed to
look to other people um so
the the pursuit of these achievements
became something that I used as a way to
justify my selfworth or to grounded in
that as like as though it was a
fluctuating thing of you know if I got
the promotion that I wanted then I'd be
good enough but then very quickly
obviously it would lapse back to you're
not good enough anymore keep going right
and what and what was Perfection GNA get
you
happiness so yeah which I think is the
what I see with a lot of people they
think that happiness has to be achieved
or earned yeah or you have to be
improved or something to that effect it
go yeah it goes I love what you're
saying about your philosophy of
self-improvement right because as you're
as you're describing it oh if I can just
improve myself into a more perfect
person then I'll be happy right it's
almost like there's this kind of dark
side to the natural and wonderful quest
to grow as a person can be very warped
if you're not mindful of how you're
approaching it yeah I the way I think
about it is like a like an oak tree the
acorn is perfect and the then the young
sproutling is perfect and the full grown
tree is perfect like meaning that growth
is part of our nature it's our Evolution
if we understand ourselves then we grow
naturally like it feels like the the
idea that we have to put effort into the
growth is is to some degree there there
there feels like effort or there's like
maybe leaning into difficult feelings
etc etc that are required but the idea
that like if you don't really try you
won't grow I think is a is a fallacy in
itself yeah I love that metaphor that's
absolutely beautiful and I agree with
you like you know I I think about um
there was this Theory from uh I think it
was Carl Rogers um that he called the
ovp the organismic valuing process which
basically said that humans are naturally
and instinctively motivated to grow and
to move towards the things that that
matter most to them that help them to
express themselves and to uh stay
aligned with their values and really
it's about getting clearing away the
stuff that's in the way so you can grow
Yeah Yeah Carl you want to hear
something crazy I don't know if this is
true but I there's a guy I know who
worked with Carl Rogers apparently and
uh I facilitated something with him like
way back at this um place called 1440
and he told me the story that Carl
Rogers would have like 500 people come
into a room and he would be for this
transformational weekend and he'd have
like 26 different like facilitators
there and they just wouldn't do anything
and then eventually people would
complain and and the facilitators
would come by and they'd be like yeah I
really hear that you want us to start I
really hear that you're frustrated right
now and just give them unconditional
love and make them feel deeply heard in
their suffering wow and he would that's
all they would do for like three days oh
my go that's amazing I I do some intense
at our Retreats no doubt but that I
just I want to try that out at some
point I really want you to and I would
like to be a participant so I can be on
the other side and then we can have a
debrief after because I can picture the
the pain that that would cause the
participants that's absolutely
incredible yeah it's um the the the the
theory however is exactly what we do and
everything that we do is like our job as
facilitators is to hear people and give
unconditional love to them because when
that happens the way I look at it is
like all the boils come to the surface
pop and heal just underneath that light
and it's what we it's how we try to
approach uh almost everything we do it's
beautiful wow
um okay so uh the third one can you
remind us of the third one again yeah
you have to do everything by yourself
you're separate from other people you
know you're not connected to anyone or
anything yeah so this one is interesting
for me because you have some studies on
loneliness that you quote and um tell me
what you like for you what's the upshot
of what you've learned about loneliness
what's
the I
have I am really passionate about the
topic of loneliness because I think that
there's a lot that we're sort of missing
about it and a lot of a lot of uh
different approaches that I think would
be really powerful for people and the
you know the first one is that if you
fundamentally believe deep down that you
are you know an island that you're
separate from everybody else then in
many ways think you're always going to
have a pervasive sense of loneliness
that sticks with you and clings to you
in some way even if it's at a low level
because you believe yourself to be
completely separate from others and so
at the end of the day what only matters
is what you do for yourself and you
can't really rely upon anyone else no
one's going to show up for you and no
one will be there to help you when you
need it and that feeling
is very um very vulnerable and very I
think ter terrifying like vulnerable in
a really scary way for people because
what do you have to do you have to build
up your Fortress of the self in order to
overcome that right you have to you have
to earn enough money to always be able
to take care of yourself or you have to
earn enough power to be able to make
things happen even when people don't
want to cooperate with you you have to
always be prepared for the worst case
scenario and know that you can be there
to do something for yourself because no
one else will be there for you and that
extreme
self-reliance um that so uh kind of
underpins a lot of our culture is I
think really harmful for people and
creates a lot of pain and that to me is
one of the contributors to our sense of
loneliness and something that we have to
reckon with if we want to overcome
it yeah the you know the longest study
that Harvard ever did is all about like
what makes people you know about it I'm
I'm assuming and yeah I mean basically
it's saying that that sense of community
that sense of togetherness is huge part
of what makes us healthy physically and
happy and um so what my experience my
experience in Lonely with that this
particular kind of loneliness there's
kind of a depressed loneliness which I
think is somewhat different but the
especially the loneliness that you
experience my my thing is that that kind
of self-reliant Super Hyper achiever
loneliness um often comes from a
parenting like a parenting technique
where um we're we're taught that that
has happened an example would be I was
with a parent the other day and um this
child came two year two three-year-old
came scared I'm scared mom and like okay
you need to be a big girl it's like that
kind of like I'm not going to be
emotionally with you yeah is the like
that underpinning of of that like oh I'm
alone in this because to some degree
that is what we're telling kids these
days
um my question to you is like so we
could call it culture we could also call
it the way that we're parented um my
question to you is like how how how do
you see those two things related if at
all and and and what do you think if if
it's what is it about specifically the
culture that you see creates that sense
of loneliness if it isn't from the
parenting I think parenting is one
contributor but um it also comes from
you know media from institutions that we
participate in from um you know from the
schools and the way that we're
conditioned in terms of um how how we
perform and what we do in order to get
praise um so parenting is one of those
that you know I think it's really hard
for us to contemplate like oh this is
the my child is the person I love most
in the world and um the ways in which
I'm communicating
my un my my beliefs that are below my
level of awareness which I in got from
the culture from my parents or from
whatever it is could end up hurting them
in the future right like that feeling
of oh um I want my kid to be you know
parents want their children to be
self-sufficient right they want them to
be able to navigate the challenges in
their lives they want them to be uh
resilient and to bounce back from
challenges and if all they know is is
the school of thought that says just
buck up and do it yourself and like kind
of hide your emotions away and pull it
together and then they they teach that
through those little moments like you're
talking about you're totally right like
as a kid you learn what you have to do
keep it all inside don't share it with
anyone you know if you do they might
leave you they might think you're weak
they might not love you anymore and what
could be worse than
that right yeah so it's an interesting
thing it's like we're
teaching the the idea is like the int is
to teach children how not to be
abandoned and then yet we're teaching
them that they're always abandoned yeah
right and that their emotions are you
know something that's wrong with them
again right so like once again if you're
by yourself all the time like this is
how I feel like feel when I think about
this for myself so it might be different
for for you or for anyone listening but
it's like for me if
I'm if my emotions are too much for
somebody or um they violate some
unspoken rule of how I'm supposed to be
then every time that I feel that way if
I get angry or sad or despairing or
frustrated then I go right back to being
not good enough and then I want to hide
my real self from the people in my life
who if I want to have real relationships
with them I have to share my real self
with them right and so it's such a
tricky trap yeah yeah I mean that's the
core of our work
is is allowing expressing moving your
emotions and and and that what I notice
is that it is not an intellectual
process obviously they're emotions but
the body actually has a lot more you can
tell somebody like oh you can feel your
feelings but if you've been told your
whole life say not to get excited or not
get sad the body will like say no to it
and then the mind will just come up with
reasons and that there's actually a lot
of work that can be done with the
nervous system and with breath and
everything that allows those emotional
experiences to be able to come through
sometimes we have the choice but not not
always yeah it's so hard like I think I
it feels I'd be curious to hear about
what you've seen but for me it's like
there are certain emotions that are were
just like nogo areas like you cannot
feel that those are out of out of bounds
you know like sadness might be okay but
anger God forbid you get angry right
like it's almost like these little hot
spots that you have yeah yeah it's um
what I noticed it's very cultural and
it's very sex dependent for which ones
were not okay you know um so there's
some cultures where fear was definitely
the thing you could not express because
you'd be prey if in the neighborhood if
you were fear was shown um and so
parents are like no you can't show Fear
um you know in like upper middle class
white culture men being angry as is far
more okay women being sad is far more
okay but men being sad not so okay you
know so there's there's different
cultures and and in different cultures
different emotions but the interesting
thing is is the positive emotions that I
find are
the are actually the most challenging
for people to feel um meaning like
settle down Jimmy settle down like don't
feel excited don't be exuberant those
are those are feelings that are actually
really hard and usually people getting
in touch with them um once the they
they' move through some of the negative
ones that have been held back I have a
um I have a saying that says joy is the
matriarch of a family of emotions and
and she won't come into a house where
her children aren't welcome oh that
gives me full body
Goosebumps that's stunningly
beautiful so so it's actually a question
that I wanted to ask you too which is
what makes it happiness and not joy and
what's the difference for you in those
two things it's a really good question I
mean I think
um so interesting I'm going to be
reflecting on that saying of yours I
really like the work of George vant who
was the before Robert waldinger led the
Harvard study and he wrote a book about
um what he calls the spiritual emotions
and he talks about joy in there and what
he learned from his research and he says
that Joy is connect
and I think that that is really to me
like kind of sums up the heart of it and
so he talks about the different forms
that connection can take but the image
that he writes about that always really
stuck with me is the joy of a child
running to its mother with her arms open
waiting for her right like I just I love
that image because it's so pure and
beautiful and sums up that feeling um
and then happiness is more uh zoomed out
from that emotional experience I would
say it's the feeling of I'm happy with
the way that my life is going overall I
experience Joy but I also know how to
experience all of my other emotions as
well like a happy life has room for
every feeling and you know one of the as
a sidebar I think one of the problems
that we have is we think that a happy
life is a life where you'll never be sad
or never struggle or never have a hard
time right like that's what I used to
believe I thought okay I have to get rid
of all this pain then everything will be
okay um but I think a happy life
includes space for every feeling and um
it's more so about that broad sense of
like my life is my life is Meaningful my
life has purpose my life is filled with
relationships that matter to me I get to
grow as a person and I embrace the
challenges that I'm a part of and I
embrace the good parts of my life and I
I am interested in continuing to like
live in this way that's sort of the how
I would describe the experience more
broadly oh interesting so you're
you're you're you're using happiness in
a bit like a stateless State meaning
like no matter what I'm feeling no
matter what's going on in general I can
take one step back and go oh this is
like I feel satisfied in in this in this
overall experience yeah I think so I
think it's that broader evaluation of
one's life and like you know if I'm
having a really hard day and like really
struggling with something like I had one
of those days last week right really
just one of those experiences where I
got overwhelmed and didn't didn't like
show up for myself in the ways that I
wanted to and then it kind of spiraled
from there and all that stuff just a a
difficult day like we all have and
um I could still take a step back as
you're describing and think okay like
I'm happy with my life like I'm not
happy in this moment I'm not
experiencing like a feeling of profound
Joy or excitement or contentment or
anything but but I know that it's there
like once the emotion almost like once
the wave of the emotion passes like what
what remains what is the the the
experience for you that remains after
that
yeah so um for so what what would you if
you were if you were describing the
gifts of the what we would call negative
emotions like the sadness or anger or
anxiety or fear how do you
what you could listen to what you just
said and say oh they're just there's
something that yeah they're going to
happen and you're going to deal with
them but it's still something that is
not wanted or you could say oh like
there's a gift in in Anger there's a
gift in happiness there's a gift I guess
if if it is the second what is the what
are the gifts that you see if it isn't
the second tell me how you see it I
think it is the second so I think that
you know
sadness is what connects us to people
it's what helps us to be empathetic and
compassionate anger helps us to protect
our physical and emotional bodies as
well as the communities that we care
about loneliness is physiologically
designed to help us to reach out to
other people to reconnect to them um
anxiety is or or stress indicates that
you're doing something that you care
about something that matters to you you
know all of these all of these emot
tions are a part of living a good life
because you know how could you how could
you have meaningful relationships or
meaningful work or uh like work or work
towards an accomplishment that matters
to you without experiencing all of those
feelings you couldn't so you'd have to
give up that Pursuit and therefore we
have to embrace the the journey and the
process of experiencing
them yeah so yeah so for me connection
is I mean our our our like foundational
course is a connection course and you I
have never heard that quote it's such a
lovely quote it's connection is joy is
that yeah
so and for me connection means a lot
more probably than most folks in the
fact that there's um connection to self
which is an important thing connection
to reality and connection to each other
and that they're all reflections of each
other is what I noticed my ability to
connect with myself is a reflection of
my ability to connect with you um the
the question I have
is you don't I in the book I didn't see
that you really deeply go into
connection um but I see you go into
helping people like that there's a
really important part of helping so can
you tell me about the how you see those
relate or how you see them as different
what what do you what do you notice
between connection and helping I think I
mean I I think that connection is the
heart of everything as well I think it's
it's the heart of Happiness it's the
heart of well-being it's the heart of
Health all all of the things that we
that matter most to us um and you know
when I um when I was in grad school
there's this quote that um is that comes
from the founder one of the founders of
positive psychology uh Christopher
Peterson and he says that positive
psychology could be boiled down to three
words other people matter and um I spent
a lot of time reflecting on that quote
and starting to think about well if to
go deeper into that quote what does that
what does that really mean like why why
do other people matter what is it about
it and what I landed on is that
it's other people matter and
relationships matter because that's
where we give and receive that's what
our relationships are made up of is I
offer you something you offer me
something back and then through that
experience we create a greater
relationship or we create value in the
world or we create a product or
something that had never been made
before right there's everything is
fulfilled through this interaction of
giving and receiving and um to me I
think the secret to happiness is that if
you want to be happy try to help other
people to be happy and the best way to
do that is by using your authentic self
to to share who you really are and to
offer up your unique gifts and talents
um
and that experience of of giving and
receiving is so taken for granted um
even though it's at the heart of
everything else and so it's almost like
to me the way I perceived it was that we
take our relationships for granted right
we just view them as the fundamental
fabric of the world and if we're not
careful we can destroy them because we
do that and then we lose what matters
most to us but they are so a part of our
lives in every possible way that we
can't imagine a world without them but
then at an even deeper level we take for
granted the fact that those
relationships are based upon this act of
sharing and of receiving and to me
the more that we can embrace the fact
that we are here to help one another
that involves me offering what I have
and you offering me what you have and
receiving it then the greater happiness
we can create not only for ourselves but
for other people at the same time and so
the the kind of Heart of this message is
like where can you help what can you do
to uniquely help and that will be what
leads to your own happiness and
fulfillment so there's so I I might have
qualms with this but I might not so I
want to explore it a bit which is and
qualms is strong but the the the first
one is that I see
is there are some folks out there where
giving is from guilt or obligation
or um because they feel like they have
to
and and I don't see that kind of giving
actually make people happy I see that
kind of giving actually
create a disempowerment and a fear and
it's um Because unless the giving
actually is something that so to me it's
like to give is useful because it
creates the desire to give right but the
real happiness comes from giving through
the desire to give not just giving that
there's an actual like intent in uh so
so and then the second part of it is
that I noticed that a lot of people need
more help learning how to receive
especially those self-reliant folks
right actually learning how to receive
is act a more of a challenge for them
than giving yeah so I'm wondering like
how do you make sense of that given
totally given the book I think I those
are those are wonderful points and I I
agree with both things both points um
real giving is not something that if you
want to give and get the benefits it
can't be forced it can't be done through
a sense of shame or guilt that's not
that's not what I'm referring to at all
you know I I say in the book service is
not self-sacrifice it's self-expansion
and I think that this is something
that's really important for us to
recognize because if we're being forced
to give then it's not really a gift
right like it has to be self-determined
to be able to get those benefits that
you're looking for and that's why I
really want people to expand the way
that they think about giving you know I
I say these things and I think people
assume okay like that means I need to go
spend my weekends volunteering or I need
to quit my job and work at a nonprofit
and if that calls to you fantastic like
go do that but if it doesn't that's
great too like there are so many other
ways that you can give through your work
and in your family and in your community
and to the greater world and it's really
about finding the ones that bring you
Joy at the same time so that would be
the first the my first point there um in
response and then the second yeah people
really struggle to receive um it's
really really hard for a lot of us and
again you brought it back to the point
that I make as well which is it all
comes back to this kind of
individualistic sense of self that we
have that I can't I can't ask for
anything I can't lean on anybody body
else and what I would say in response is
that all of this idea of us being
connected right it's it's this it's
grounded in this idea of
interconnectedness we are all connected
to one another we all need each other
we're a part of this ecosystem and if
you shut down your part of
interconnectedness if you're just like a
oneway giving everything away that you
have and never accepting anything in
return you're not a real part of it
you're not actually really participating
in the EB and the flow of what's
involved and for you to deny somebody
else the chance to help you you're
actually denying them the chance to be
happy if help helping other people is
what leads to happiness and so if you
actually if you want to serve others if
you want to be somebody who's a giver
you have to let them help you at the
same time um and so I think that that
takes time and practice and you know
coaching and support and all of that but
we can learn how to be more open to
accepting and receiving especially for
those who might be you know kind of like
overg givers who really want to show up
for others this could be a new way for
them to to conceive giving yeah there's
this interesting thing is one of the
things that I notice is the in ayurvedic
medicine or in traditional Chinese
medicine they have this thing where if
there's an imbalance in your system you
should be able to find it by looking at
the eye or by looking at the fingernails
or by looking at the lips or the tongue
or that that the the the imbalance
should be able to be seen in all the
parts or or at least a lot of the parts
you should be able to see the imbalance
so you can find out what's wrong with
the kidney by like looking at the tongue
for instance and
and I noticed is the same thing if you
just watch two people have a
conversation and you can see like how
much they're in the other person and how
much they're in themselves and are they
in that balance meaning are they giving
completely in the conversation are they
receiving completely are they are they
not allowing giving or receiving in the
conver like what's interesting is that
like you can see this in all the
conversations and to some degree it's
what we're teaching when we're in the
connection course where we're teaching
about how to
communicate we're we're going to the
same level that you're going to just in
a very different way we're doing it like
right now right here here's the moment
where you get to practice amazing I love
the idea that the conversation as a
microcosm of the relationship that's
absolutely brilliant and is such an
insightful way to approach that almost
as a diagnostic that's that's incredible
the other thing that's interesting for
me also is it's also about the
relationship with the self that's been
like
meaning how the voice in the head treats
you how you can give and receive to
yourself right also is H because
typically what I notice is like there's
a voice in the head it's critical and
there's not a lot of giving and there's
a lot of like trying to please the voice
in the head and yeah that that kind of
internal relationship reflects out into
the way that someone does the job it
reflects into the way that
right I'm supposed to be of service to
this voice in my head then I'm supposed
to be of service to the job then I'm
supped and so they don't they don't like
so it's a very interesting thing how it
reflects both in the inner Dynamic but
also in the in the Fascinating People
yeah that's that's so true so insightful
yeah so so so question for you
is what are some of the daily practices
that um folks can do do so you've got
these big broad things like you know
look
at look at um like the fact that you
you're not broken but that might not be
something that someone can just go oh
I'm not broken totally fine I'm fine
now everybody's here supporting me like
they have a hard time getting from Like
A to B um I don't have to work to feel
valuable um I don't have to produce to
be valuable
um what what are some of the da things
that you recommend to help
folks to make it practical and and you
know like the conversation like what's
the daily thing that they like if they
work on it there it's going to show
what's happening in the rest
of um you know one one practice I think
that can be really helpful to your point
about the relationship with the self and
the voice in your head and how that can
Ripple out
is um something that I do on a daily
basis as well and have found Great Value
in is every time that you make a mistake
or something goes wrong or you know you
feel a difficult emotion anything that
violates your idea of what you're
supposed to be in the perfect version of
yourself um try and catch yourself
before you make this leap to I'm
unworthy as a person because this thing
happened so you know like it's really
silly but think about a time that you um
you know you dropped a glass and it
shattered everywhere and there's you
know like it's all over the floor and
you're late for work and instantly the
voice in my head would go God you idiot
you're so stupid how could you do
something like this right and instead
what would a Kinder way to treat myself
that valued myself be um oops I dropped
a glass mistakes happen I'm a human
sometimes these things happen right
anything that helps you to separate your
self worth from the outcome or the
behavior that occurred that you deem as
less than accept
will help you to start rewiring your
brain a little bit to be to be treating
yourself with more of that unconditional
acceptance that we're really looking for
and that kindness that will then be able
to Ripple outward and the thing I love
about this is like everyone is really
busy you know everyone has a lot on
their plate I don't want to add things
on to your day but these these mistakes
and human moments like I like to call
them like they happen no matter what
they're always going to happen so when
they happen how can you use them for
good as a way of improving your
relationship with yourself um that's one
practice that seems so small but has
really had a profound impact on me in
the way that I perceive and understand
my self
worth yeah I I have a I have a practice
that's similar where your voice we do it
like similarly like so the voice in the
head will say whatever it's going to say
but how you relate to it can change
dramatically so you're an idiot you know
it's like oh could you manage me better
that's like that's really bad management
or you're an idiot and oh okay I'm an
idiot like or you're an idiot it's like
I'm an idiot like what are are I mean oh
I love you I see that you're really
scared and that I'm gonna make a mistake
and that's okay you can be scared like
there's a thousand different responses
that we can give to the voice in the
head and it seems like it's pretty
similar in the and the ideas behind it
yeah I love that it's like instead of
the default response of you know like
cowering or shaming yourself you can
change it right you're you're empowered
to shift your response in that way I
love that often easier to shift than the
voice in the head because so automatic
yeah
yeah cool awesome well I oh wait you
know there's one more question I wanted
to ask you you so you went through the
negative emotions for us moving anger is
a huge thing um typically I see
repressed anger as a big part of
depression and a big part of anxiety
see I see anger itself as as love we
don't get angry at anything that we
don't have a deep care for right there's
like like
even you know we might get angry over
like the coffee machine not working but
that's not what we're really angry about
like you know so but what we're deeply
angry about and so I was just wondering
how was your journey how has your
journey been with anger like in your
process did was there did you have
movement around allowing anger was anger
part of something that changed or is it
just always just been in the background
and not accessible how how has it been
for you I think that um I grew up
repressing any anger that I felt um and
feeling as though it was a real sign of
Badness of of being of being unlovable
and unacceptable um and the idea that
anger is love would have been really
freeing for me at the time so I thank
you for that um really like it's a very
healing way to look at that emotion I
think um and I um I didn't really come
to terms with my anger until um I went
through a really difficult experience
over the last few years when my when my
partner got sick out of nowhere and came
down with this incredibly debilitating
illness that left him bed bound and I
had to become his full-time caregiver
when I was in my 20s
um and
I had to confront my anger I had to I
had a lot of anger about it I was like I
was angry at the doctors who couldn't
fix him I was angry at the plane that
broke his wheelchair I was angry at the
people who were able to walk down this
tree when he was stuck in his bed lying
in the dark I was angry at myself for
mistakes I made when I was caring for
him and I had no idea how to like give
him a shot of his medicine and I
accidentally ended up hurting him I was
angry at everything and I had to go on a
real journey of like learning how to
accept that and to figure out how to how
to process it out of me um and it
was
um and it took me a while to even
realize that that anger was like such a
a difficult presence within me right
just after that years of suppression and
thinking and then of course the other
thing about it is I
I layered on top of it this idea of like
the perfect caregiver that I was
supposed to be and like you know perfect
caregiver would never get angry at
anything right they're just always
Pleasant and calm and competent and all
that stuff um and so I started
processing it really through movement
that was sort of the first way that I
was able to access it so um I would
literally spend like 10 minutes um
punching my pillow or like doing like um
Furious like jumping jacks or something
like that just trying to express it and
I got really into like high intensity
workouts because I felt like it was a
way for me to like Express that emotion
in some way and then as I did that I
started to become more and more
comfortable with it and like then I
could touch on it through journaling and
like through expressing it in that way
with freew writing and all of that and
then eventually I was able to like
finally kind of process it more COG
niely through talking about it but it
all started with more of a bodily
practice Yeah Yeah I find the the the
most profound way when you can get to it
is physical punching beating something
like that with
words to process it the
quickest not just the physical not just
the expression but but all together
that's been my experience with our our
yeah it's such a
um it so it was so difficult right like
I would never have a problem crying like
I would never have a problem being sad
right and to your point about you know
being a woman like sadness was never a
problem but God forbid you get mad at
something that would be really out of
line um right and so reclaiming that
anger has been really valuable I think
and um I think that I was also really um
I learned a lot from reading about how
men process anger and like their
relationship to relation ship to it as
well and I think um it's almost like we
have a lot to teach each other about
like our different emotional experiences
in different ways you know yeah yeah
there is a so my I I do a lot of
teaching with my wife and whenever we do
an anger demonstration she always is the
one to do it because to watch you know a
50-year-old woman have more access and
Clarity with her anger than like a
25-year-old boy wow right like this
thing that like it immediately shocks
everybody into like oh there's
something here that I can't that I
thought I knew but I didn't know because
there's like like like that's a louder
sound that's a bigger movement that's
like a more embodied experience of anger
than than what I what I see in society
to be angry it's really it's really cool
to watch that sounds that sounds very um
very profound and very moving I would I
would love I would be honored to to
witness that someday yeah it's cool it's
I always like looking at the faces when
when she does it I just sit back and I
just like look at everybody's faces and
see them go what the just
happened absolutely amazing I love
that awesome well a pleasure to have you
on the call on the on the podcast yeah
thank you so much for having me it was
so wonderful to talk to you and learn
from you yeah very nice and and I really
appreciate learning from you as well
yeah thank you thank you